{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf810
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red53\green53\blue53;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c27059\c27059\c27059;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab560
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 I now have a better idea of what is required when creating a testing infrastructure. Need to make sure things scale appropriately, need to make sure all intuitive functionality is there, need to make sure we only call the server when we want a response, only load relevant content. In addition, need to verify that the server rejects nonsense parameters (for example, sign up and registration only stopped by BrainTree nonce. Need to ensure server side verification - that the user info is properly formatted, and most importanty, the plan_id sent in payment verification  is valid. \
Standard suite of js testing that nicely integrate with babel and web pack - front end and dynamic\
Test runner\
Back end\
Ensure code coverage\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Next, in determining how to create a testing suite, I realized I might not be the target user. All five users being female on the bottom of the page didn\'92t scare me away, but what benefits would I get from reading recommendations? Have a serious back log. I could see product itself attracting people \'97 a limited edition book cover design, higher quality paper, a sewn binding. This would probably only attract me if it was a book I planned to keep for a long time or re-read.\
\
Something unique to the community itself. Discussion view hints at current vision of the importance of community. Both of my last projects have been on digital communication and come to appreciate the nuances in discussion systems. First, I don\'92t think nested comments are appropriate here. I think forum style better. Also looks bare bones. Could use existing open source tools. Discourse has been growing in popularity and inexpensive and easy to implement. Gif below\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0
\cf2 A high quality discussion center for like minded people discussing the same few books does appeal to me. Further exclusives.  Discussing with the judge or the author. Either active on forum. OR  something similar to reddit AMA or Quora sessions - vote on questions to ask and then interview author - either text or live stream \
Or a chance of meeting the author or judge \
Or meetups with other readers - turning the book club into an in person event}