Protocol can be read as a book of political economy. It argues for a methodological shift from a generalized understanding of networks to a specified one, in which the protocological systems of TCP/IP and DNS operate as what Foucault termed “political technologies.” Foucault’s later work on biopower and biopolitics is significant in this respect, for while Foucault never reduced technology to an empirical “thing,” his analyses of institutions always emphasize the various correlations between bodies and things. Protocol adopts a similar methodological outlook, considering technical standards (such as the OSI Reference Model), network technologies (HTTP), institutional histories (IEEE), and, significantly, instances of “tactical media.”

Network-as-diagram based on the Deluzean concept of diagram; “Protocol considers networks through a “diagram,” a term bor- rowed from Gilles Deleuze. Protocol considers first a network as a set of nodes and edges, dots and lines. The dots may be computers (server, client, or both), human users, communities, LANs, corporations, even countries. The lines can be any practice, action, or event effectuated by the dots (downloading, emailing, connecting, encrypting, buying, logging on, port scanning). With this basic “diagram” you can do a number of things. You can connect the dots—all of them—making a totally connected, distributed network with more than one path to the destination. You can also disconnect dots, even delete dots (no paths, no destination). You can filter out which dots are connected to the network. You can create portals for the addition of future dots. You can designate which kinds of lines you want between the dots (for not all lines are equal; some diverge, flee; others converge, coalesce). In short, a network-as-diagram offers all sorts of possibilities for organization, regulation, and management.”

Using the internet as a political technology? These concept-tools are not so much instruments or hammers, but rather soft machines for interrogating the political-technical dynamics of information and computer technologies, especially as they pertain to networks of all types.

- Treating the rhizome as a network with material substrate and infrastructure; lack general discussion of its constituent parts in the book; so allow me to be so bold as to provide a generalized theory for protocol

https://lucian.uchicago.edu/blogs/mediatheory/keywords/rhizome/

http://csmt.uchicago.edu/glossary2004/network.htm
