“The first point is that networks are not metaphors. As Galloway states, “Protocols do not perform any interpretation themselves; that is, they encapsulate information inside various wrappers, while remaining relatively indifferent to the content of information contained within.” The concept of “protocol” is thus meant to demonstrate the nonmetaphorical quality of networks. Or, put another way, the concept of protocol shows the predilection for general discussion of networks in terms of general tropes. Networks are not tropes for notions of “interconnection.” They are material technologies, sites of variable practices, actions, and movements. This is, perhaps, stated too strongly. Yes, metaphors do materialize and corporealize, and, in some sense, metaphor is consonant with language itself. But discussions of networks— especially in cultural theory—have too often slipped into “vapor theory,” eliding a specific consideration of the material substrate and infrastructure with a general discussion of links, webs, and globalized connectivity.”

"Rather, this abstract-but-real is the network that is always enacted and always about to enact itself. One can pose the question: Is a network a network if it is not being used?”
- Turn it into a network in order to use the idea as more than as a non-virtual abstract concept
- “The network as real-but-abstract may involve “information” as an immaterial entity, but that information always works toward real effects and transformations, no matter how localized.”

“What are some common metaphoric uses of networks that Protocol resists? One is that networks are synonymous with connectivity (and that connectivity is always good). Tropes of links, nets, webs, and a general relationality also stem from this use of networks. Pop science writing on network science or the gee-whiz rhetoric of magazines such as Wired often adopt a quantitative politics: If information wants to be free, then more connectivity equals more freedom.”
“But the concept of “protocol” is as concerned with disconnection as it is with connectivity. The moment of disconnectivity is the moment when protocol most forcefully displays its political character. Disconnectivity can occur in a number of ways, from a personal dialup disconnected due to a time limit imposed by a commercial ISP, to the management (or surveillance) of large-scale networks involved in political activism. The analysis in part III below of hacking, computer viruses, and the tactical appropriation of both by cyberfeminism provides a set of examples for how disconnectivity can be as instrumental for protocol’s (mal)functioning as is connectivity.”

Do the politics of this disconnectivity affect the Bhopal community itself? Do policies regarding information content (DMCA) actually encourage such regulation? These are complex questions which have arisen from this event, one that has been made possible by the dual nature of the Internet that Protocol points to: its horizontality (community networks; TCP/IP) and its verticality (its stratification; DNS).